this archival recordings part of her
tribute to Michael Pawlenty the
internationally known political
scientist historian and activist - you
see radio time of useful consciousness
Michael Parenti the JFK assassination
and the gangster nature of the state
when Oliver Stone's movie JFK opened in
December 1991 a huge PR campaign was
mobilized against the film even
progressives spoke out Noam Chomsky
wrote in support of the Warren
Commission's findings in contrast
Michael Pevensie gave one of his highly
acclaimed talks criticizing the lone
assassin theory the bitter question that
haunted defenders and critics alike was
whether government agencies of a
democratic country would do such a thing
as assassinate an elected president in
the talk that you're about to hear
Michael Pawlenty turns to that question
first he examines what he calls the
gangster nature of the state he spoke in
Berkeley on the 30th anniversary of the
assassination of John F Kennedy
Michael Pawlenty I've been looking at
history and I've been impressed and
depressed by the fact that history is
really a chronicle of immense atrocities
what we have in history is the fact that
when surplus-value develops when there's
more than a subsistence economy you have
some portion of the population that will
do everything it can to enslave and to
expropriate the labor of the rest of the
people whether it's a slave society as
in ancient Greece and Rome or feudal
society where people were reduced to
serfs or in capitalist society where
people are driven to the edge of
insecurity and made to work faster and
harder and one of the things that's used
in that arrangement is a very conscious
instrument of control that's very
necessary and that instrument is called
the state that is what they do is set up
a state an organization that has a as
Max Weber who wasn't de Marxist as Marx
Weber called it an organization that has
a man
bully on the legitimate uses of force
and violence on the use of legitimate
force and violence but that's what we
have today we also have developed in
modern times some democratic features
some means of trying to fight back in
restrain this arbitrary power what are
we trying to say that along with
government we also have a thing called
the state and and along with governance
along with policies and along with those
things we have this other instrument
even in a democratic state and that
instrument whether it's in democratic
france or democratic england or
democratic germany or democratic italy
or all or democratic USA or democratic
canada and all these countries all of
them have these other instruments and
agencies that act like a bunch of
gangsters that act repressive lis that
use surveillance that use every dirty
trick in the book on equal enforcement
of tax laws naming the bringing in of
drugs into whole neighborhoods and
communities trumped-up murder charges
assassinations that you have in the
middle of these democracies you have the
state within the state known as the
national security state and that state
is capable of the most unspeakable
crimes that you can think of and those
crimes are perpetrated against their own
people that perpetrated against people
all around the world
not long ago I got a letter from a woman
who's been a community organizer in
Chicago and she said with grief in her
heart she said I remember the 60s
I remember the tremendous Democratic
organization and leadership that was
developing in the Latino and
african-american communities and
remember those leaders and every single
one of them today is either dead shot by
the police or in marion prison on
trumped-up charges and I remember the
demoralisation that took place the
shattering of those organizations and
after those organizations and
organizations were shattered and
demoralized then in came the drug
traffickers and those drug traffickers
the thing I remember the most about them
is that they were aided
and abetted by the feds by the federal
agents themselves and this is what
happens that is we are dealing with the
state that was engaged in domestic
counterinsurgency and it was more
interested in having a population that
was unorganized and demoralized than a
population that was organized that was
effectively fighting for its democratic
rights because if it's organized and
it's effective and it's powerful it will
start making demands and start pursuing
its interest and it will start cutting
in on the interests that those police
and those coppers and those undercover
people and those forces of military and
law and order are dedicated to
protecting protecting the status quo
protecting those with property against
who do not those who don't have it and
by the way for the last thousand years
we've had theorists who have made that
point except they make it proudly Adam
Smith said as the divisions of property
become increasingly unequal that is more
and more necessary to have a state to
defend those who have property from
those who do not John Locke the purpose
of the state is to defend those who have
property from those who do not James
Harrington
you can go on James Madison Alexander
Hamilton the only difference was that
when Mark said it he said to defend
those who have property from those whose
labor is expropriated by those who
accumulate wealth off their labor who
have all the property he changed it a
little bit and he said it wasn't just
haves and have-nots
it was haves taking it from those who
produced it and created the haves and
throughout the world dominant economic
interests today have enlisted the
efforts of assassins and torturers as we
talk at this moment the CIA and other
such agencies in this country and
other's countries have sponsored
violence torture death squads drugs in
scores of countries from as a year to
Angola to Mozambique to El Salvador to
Guatemala to Indonesia
East Timor and you go on on on all to
Western Europe to the USA to Chicago and
Detroit and Boston in New York they have
systematically targeted in many
countries the clergy the peasant leaders
intellectuals journalists student
leaders labor union leaders workers and
any community activists and such
tens of thousands have been murdered and
assassinated to prevent social change to
destroy any kind of redistributive
politics any kind of government any kind
of social movement that is not willing
to reduce its people to economic fodder
and with NAFTA with the North American
Free Trade Agreement we now see the
third world ization of the US will
continue full speed ahead
the gangster nature of the state is
cloaked by the Democratic facade and by
the Democratic substance of the
government I mean there is some
democratic substance there are
democratic victories have been won we
have struggled and certain things have
been won and yet in the state still goes
on and what is so compelling about an
issue like drugs as Michael Levine's
pointing out is that it's not that we're
saying the government is not doing
enough about drugs or they were losing
the war against drugs is that the
government or elements in it are active
perpetrators and purveyors of drugs and
what it is so compelling about the JFK
assassination
is how naked Lee the gangster nature of
the state is revealed it is an awakening
and to know the truth about the JFK
assassination is to create ad
legitimating force that calls into
question the entire state system and the
entire social order
it represents and this is why for thirty
years the mainstream press has
suppressed or dismissed out of hand
being the findings about JFK's death the
findings of independent investigators
like Peter Dale Scott Herald Weisberg
Carl Oglesby mark Lane Anthony summers
Philip Melanson Jim Garrison
and dozens and dozens of others they're
called assassination buffs they're not
buffs even that word is a limiting and
marginalizing and diminishing term a
buff is a kind of a hobby pursuer you
see it's a kind of a quirky person who
follows quirky little interests would
you talk about Holocaust buffs would you
know they are serious investigators of a
very serious crime which leads to all
sorts of serious understandings about
the criminal nature of the scape and
this is why they relentlessly the
mainstream media and the opinion leaders
and the any political leaders of this
country relentlessly attack or ignore
this literature and this is why they
give fulsome gushing ready publicity to
the likes of Gerald Posner with his book
case closed which has got God put into
every major magazine I couldn't put the
TV on all week without seeing this guy's
face and hearing him blather these kind
of cliche statements whose whose
credibility are dependent on you being
totally ignorant of what the
investigators for thirty years have been
uncovering and the questions that have
been raising and he did a grotesque
idiotic whitewash of the whole thing and
this is why they savaged they savaged
Oliver Stone's movie JFK a movie that
was very accurate about the specifics of
the murder a movie that reached millions
of people that broke through that thing
that they were keeping down the only
movie in the history of Hollywood and I
wrote a book called make-believe media
which is about TV and films so I think I
know something about films at least that
I didn't spend the better part of a year
reading a lot of literature it's the
only movie that I know of that was
attacked six months before it was ever
released
in the Washington Post and in the New
York Times and in Time and Newsweek and
attack relentlessly for a year after it
was released and this is also why in
this past week they kept up the
relentless propaganda campaign with the
30th anniversary of the Kennedy
assassination to show that Oswald was
the lone assassin and and they're always
limiting the question just as the Warren
Commission did a priori did was Oslo
Valona session that he act alone did he
or did he not act alone meanwhile all
the serious investigations investigators
have a different question it's not that
he was not at all one of the people who
shot Kennedy he did not act at all
although he was involved in another way
he was involved as a fall guy and this
is why they do this if you want to know
why you just listened to them it's not
my analysis it's what they say the
propagandists of the right and the
center know why they've got to trash
this issue and contain it listen to what
Tom wicker of the New York Times had to
say
now Tom wicker he's never written a
movie review in his life JFK came out
and Tom wicker who was a columnist a
Washington columnist for The New York
Times suddenly became a movie reviewer
and instead of getting the usual movie
review length of 800 words he got 2,000
words the whole page with pictures and
all that and in that review he tells us
that if the quote wild assertions in
Oliver Stone's movie are taken at face
value Americans will have to accept the
idea that most of the nation's major
institutions conspired together and
carried out Kennedy's murder the in an
era with a wicker goes on in an era when
mistrust of government and loss of
confidence in institutions the press not
the least are widespread and verily such
a suggestion
seems a dubious public service
so truth or not truth has nothing doing
it he's saying the question is
institutional legitimacy Wicca
understands the heart of the matter a
full revelation about the murder would
be a serious attack upon the legitimacy
of the dominant institutions of state
and class the press not being the least
of one of those institutions a faithful
servant of it the system that New York
Times writers faithfully defend playing
before mass audiences the movie JFK did
not finger a cabal of malevolent
perpetrators but in fact pointed the
finger at the national security state
itself as the murderer damage control
you know back in 1978 the House Select
Committee reported in fact after an
investigation that there was more than
one assassin shooting Kennedy there and
there therefore was a conspiracy in
response the washington post immediately
editorialized in 1978 quote could it
have been some other malcontents who mr.
Oswald met casually
it gets better it gets better with could
not as many as three or four societal
outcasts with no ties to any one
organization have developed in some
spontaneous way a common determination
to express their alienation in the
killing of President Kennedy it is
possible that two persons acting
independently attempted to shoot the
president at the very same time it is
possible
it's not all likely so sometimes those
who deny conspiracies create the most
convoluted fantasies of all David Garrow
who wrote a biography of Martin Luther
King benignly patronizingly looks at you
at the public mind and he says that the
evidence pointing to a conspiracy to
murder Martin Luther King no at large
you see what it is a large majority of
American people do believe in
assassination conspiracies that allows
events to have large mysterious causes
instead of small idiosyncratic ones I
would say the Washington Post had the
most mysterious cause of all a few
minutes ago they liked that they liked
the large causes you see but the
question of conspiracy is has to be
decided by an investigation of evidence
not by a priori unscientific and
patronizing presumptions about the
public mind in any case the evidence in
King's assassination doesn't involve
large mysterious causes but very
immediate actualities and the
investigators like Peter Dale Scott and
Harold Weisberger Mark Lane is that they
were impelled by some yearnings you see
they were impelled by questions of
evidence by things that didn't seem to
make sense by very immediate empirical
things which drew them into this more
and more but which these people who
never read that evidence don't have to
deal with and so they can fashion all
these theories the independent
investigators demolished the Warren
Commission the first and most effective
perhaps was how icebergs book whitewash
and the other and then the other one by
Mark Lane rush to judgment right there
terrific written a 25 years ago let's
focus on a small part of the actual
conspiracy I can't obviously go through
it all it would take ages let's start
with Oswald if you've watched television
this week you again for the for the 78th
time heard that Oswald was a loner an
incompetent not very bright you heard he
was mostly Disturb Joe opposed McGann
there
turning instant psychiatrist and he said
Lee Harvey Oswald was a very disturbed
young boy had verjus their childhood and
he was a passive-aggressive
I said passive-aggressive
passive-aggressive assassin that
explains why I use a rifle which
couldn't shoot straight he also was a
leftist Alexander Coburn has joined the
right in the center and and in a column
in The Examiner said he was a leftist
the truth is something else Lee Harvey
Oswald all his IQ tests show that he was
above average intelligence he was a
bright guy a quick learner
Oswald Lee Harvey Oswald spent most of
his adult life not as they lonely
drifter but directly linked to the US
intelligence community at the age of 18
in the US Marines he had secret security
clearance and he was working at Marine
Air Control in asougi base in Japan
Atsugi was a top-secret base where the
CIA launched some of its u2 flights and
did other kinds of covert operations in
China the next year at the age of 19 he
was assigned to El Toro Air Station in
California with security clearance to
work radar and here he emerged certain
strange things began to happen he
emerged as a babbling russophile and
Soviet communists he started playing
Russian language records at blast level
in his barracks he started addressing
his fellow Marines in Russian he read
Russian books and touted Soviet
Communism as quote the best system in
the world
he called his fellow Marines comrades
now the US Marine Corps 1958
was not exactly known as a bastion of
liberal tolerance and free thinking my
buddy bernard livingston wrote a book
called closeted read he tells of his
experiences in the army where they had
to filter out anybody who had funny
opinions who had pinkish opinions or
whatever else they had to be reported
that the army constantly and I'm sure
the Marines constantly surveilled
anybody who might outspokenly or
actively begin to say or act certainly
in the way he did but in this instance
Oswald's marine commanders didn't mind
he kept his security clearance he kept
all the radar records he could see what
was going in and out and knew all about
the things that were happening there and
he wealth of sensitive radar information
and other and from highly sensitive
information from sensitive bases black
operations as they would call well if
Oswald was a Soviet spy or a Cuban spy
as some people now claim he certainly
had a novel way of building a cover
other odd things began happening in
February 1959 Lee Harvey Oswald failed
the Marine Corps proficiency test in
Russian six months later he was
practically fluent in Russian only in
1974 a document that was dislodged from
the Warren Commission that had been
secreted thanks to how icebergs legal
efforts got the document out that we
shown that Oswald had attended the US
Army Monterey School of Languages now
Monterey is not open to anyone who just
happens to have a hobby a language hobby
you go only for serious training and you
are sent by the government and it must
be related to government work in a
language picked by the government which
is related to specific assignments so
Oswald learned Russian at the US
Monterey School of Languages another
hard thing Oswald was given an early
discharge from the Marines because his
mother had injured her foot that's
called a dis dependency discharge your
parent needs you a jar had fallen on her
toe and he was immediately he put in the
request and he got it
within a week his fellow Marines were
astonished at the at the velocity of the
release it also so happened that the jaw
fell on her foot
a year before the discharge but she was
having it wasn't healing right you know
this was only one of a number of very
strangely favorable treatments that the
US government began to give Lee Harvey
Oswald he then defected to the USSR but
how Phillip Melanson raises the question
to get to Russia in those days that
would have cost $1,500 Lee Harvey
Oswald's bank account showed a deposit
of only two hundred and three dollars he
got after he arrived in London and was
there he left London and went to
Helsinki on October 11 on a day when
there were no available commercial
flights that would have allowed him to
make it in one day he had some kind of
private transportation to get to
Helsinki in Russia he announced that he
was denounced tear every noun Singh his
US citizenship and that he had lots of
secrets that he was going to give to the
Soviets he even went into the u.s.
embassy and announced that and made sure
they all knew it the Soviets didn't bite
if they let him stay but they at no time
thought he could be an agent of any use
to them they kept him under constant
surveillance he worked in a factory he
showed no particular interest in guns
but he belonged to the factory's Gun
Club
he used to join in the rabbit shoots and
he could never hit the rabbit always
someone had to come behind him and shoot
the rabbit while he was firing otherwise
they would have been there all day it
was a joke he was a miserable marksman
as he had been in the US Marines he had
been flagged again again on the they
missed the whole target a number of
times you get the flag so the obvious
waltz joke was a couldn't hit the side
of a barn
now if Lee Harvey Oswald was really a
defector and not a US spy the US
intelligence could well have taken the
view that his was one of the most
damaging defections in history now
what's done in all defections especially
those connected with definitely those
connected with government and military
is that there's a damage
no damage assessment was ever made on
Oswald's defection this did come out in
the Warren Commission in the House
Select Committee why I was there was no
damage assessment guess it was just
overlooked
we don't know after two and a half years
he applies to return to the US this is
after renouncing his citizenship
announcing he was going to give away
secrets and instead of being grabbed
when he comes out and tried as a traitor
the u.s. accepts him back and he says he
was never debriefed in fact he was the
briefed in-home in Amsterdam but the CIA
has no record of debriefing in my head
doesn't know who has never touched him
was never near him and their explanation
before the Commission was that there
were so many tours coming out that there
was nothing particularly about him that
would would would catch our attention
one might wonder what is needed to catch
your attention a defector uh
secrets after the assassination the CIA
claimed that they suspected that he was
a Soviet spy they still didn't Dupree
from debrief and then that makes it even
more curious he gets he gets out of
Russia and what does the State
Department do they give him money they
give him money to travel back to the US
and get set up they pay all his travel
and moving expenses and those of his
wife's he's given back his passport with
full rights to travel anywhere and
denounced the US government again
someplace else
his wife is exempted from usual
immigration quotas no waiting no
exclusions for having belonged to the
Soviet Komsomol was the Communist Youth
Organization which is a violation of
u.s. immigration laws yes she was
allowed in once back in Dallas Lee
Harvey Oswald settles in under the wing
of one George de Mohrenschildt a
right-wing Russian with CIA ties and
this begins a whole pattern that goes on
in Dallas and New Orleans namely the
forays out into the public eye as I left
this he starts a one-person fair play
for Cuba organization in New Orleans
never has another member
never recruits another member all his
time in new
and in Dallas he never once contacts a
single member of the Communist Party or
any other left organization although he
writes lots of letters to the Communist
Party USA and to the Socialist Workers
Party to groups which at that time
weren't even talking to each other say
dear comrades how are you we fight
boredom we go on yes what should I do
and this and that
send me instructions you know he blazes
a trail local TV fistfights inflammatory
incidents leaflets one of the leaflets
shows a heel is dead his organization
was on Camp Street in the very same
building that guy Bannister had his
office guy Bannister was an FBI agent
and a whole bunch of other Cuban emigres
right-wing groups were there and his
personal relations were with right-wing
anti-communist Cubans or with right-wing
crypto-fascist or CIA types or others so
while he supposedly was this leftist and
if you ever heard any of the tapes of
him speaking and explaining what
communism whether socialism was it's
laughable it's this little rope
superficial thing while he was a leftist
in fact all his personal associations
were with right-wing and people linked
to the intelligence community he also
knew Jack Ruby now they would have us
believe that this man who couldn't hit
the side of the barn took a man linka
Carcano rifle whose sights were not even
set an italian weapon by the way which
the italian said the the weapon that
never killed anyone on purpose
and he fired and killed the president
United States that he would forgo
shooting President Kennedy when he had a
full body shot of him coming right at
him down Houston Street right toward the
right toward the the Texas Book
Depository where he could when he could
go at him go at him like a shooting
gallery that's coming closer and close
it perfect the ideal thing he didn't
shoot him then he waited until the car
turned at a hundred and ten degree angle
down Elm Street and as he went by and
had only his head in a little portion of
his shoulders and then firing through
the trees he rapidly got off three shots
in a few seconds something which the
best Marchman in the country were not
able to emulate until after much
practice and after the sights on the
mannlicher-carcano were reset and
brought into a laboratory and fixed in
there and they had all sorts of remarks
to make about the awful performance of
this rifle by the way right through a
tree that was later cut down we are
asked to believe that a bullet would go
through John Kennedy pose in midair for
two seconds change directions and wound
Governor Connally in two places and then
reappear intact on a stretcher fallen
out of Connolly's body by the way that's
not true it did not ever reappear on the
stretcher as if fallen out of somebody's
body it had reappeared wedged into the
side of the stretcher it obviously had
been pushed in there so this was a
bullet that jumped out of Connolly's
body and wedged itself in the side of
the stretcher this magic bullet had a
lot of magic in it we're asked to
believe that a treasure of physical
evidence the interior of the limousine
the presidential limousine itself which
would have all sorts of evidence bits of
strapping or whatever else in bullet
parts blood lines of fire which was the
in which was just accidentally taken
instantly torn out destroyed and totally
rebuilt that this was not a deliberate
cover-up but we're asked to believe that
Kennedy's brain just disappeared that
the x-ray which now shows a
reconstructed head with no exit wound
oddly taken with no lowered with no jaw
so it could be anybody's you can't do
any kind of dental identification to see
if that x-ray is President Kennedy's
that the autopsy was just botched
innocently we're asked to believe that
Jack Lew be a gambler and gangster was
links to the Cuban exiles and an
acquaintance of Oswald's who once worked
for congressman Richard Nixon for the
house and American Activities Committee
in Chicago when his name was still Jack
Rubinstein before he changed it to Ruby
we're asked to believe that he just took
it upon himself to kill Oswald because
he was so moved by the suffering that
had that Oswald had caused the Kennedy
family although Ruby and a year later in
jail up repeatedly kept alluding to the
fact that you don't know the whole story
there's much more behind all of this
there's something really deep and
sinister here and all this and he was
just simply dismissed by a media that
was taking its cues were asked for 21
witnesses persons otherwise related to
the case in some close way with some
information privy to some conversations
whatever else or who've met violent
deaths were part of a colossal
coincidence like the one the Washington
Post was talking about that later on in
1978 the second round of killings has
started after the House Select Committee
investigations 16 more who died
violently they just happened to die
coincidentally violent deaths including
one of them being George de
Mohrenschildt himself killed by a gun
blast to the head three hours after a
house assassinations committee
investigator had tried to contact him he
was being set up for an interview he was
being set up for a lot more than that
George Morin child was not only close to
Oswald but in his telephone book there
was found a description or an insert to
George Pappy Bush that he was a close
friend of George Bush there was a
correspondence between them the
sheriff's office in Palm County Florida
found that his shooting was very strange
and was ruled a suicide William Sullivan
a third FBI third third guy in the FBI
who was supposed to appear before the
House Committee to talk by the way
Sullivan was on Sea
I a according to Rob Moreau he was on
the CIA payroll he was shot right
outside his home by a man who claimed to
have mistaken him for a deer he was he
was charged with misdemeanor and
released in custody of his father a
state policeman ssamjang Cano who died
from natural causes when his heart
stopped beating after bullet went
through it one day before he was to
testify about mob and CIA connections
while and while under government
protection and by the way what comes out
of this whole thing is the incredible
linkages between the CIA and mob
families and mob figures again again
because after all the mob is very
functional they can do the kind of dirty
things that that the CIA may sometimes
want them to do there are even some on
the left like Noam Chomsky and Alexander
Coburn who argue that this whole
interest in the assassination comes from
a Kennedy Reviva a Camelot yearning the
yearning for lost Messiah
I'm giving quotes these are quotes right
from Chomsky Coburn and Chomsky and
others they challenge the notion that
Kennedy was assassinated for intending
to withdraw from Vietnam or undo the CIA
or in the Cold War these things could
not have led to his downfall because
they were not true Kennedy was a cold
warrior a counter insurgent who wanted a
military withdrawal from Vietnam only
with victory I have argued similarly in
my book democracy for the few that in
fact indeed Kennedy was a cold warrior
and a counter insurgent and that he
should not be romanticized as a
progressive Chomsky Coburn and others
acclaimed that the change of
administration that came with JFK's
assassination had no large-scale effect
on policy not even on tactics in other
words if Kennedy had lived he likely
would have fabricated a Tonkin Gulf
casas belly he would have introduced
ground troops in the massive land war as
Lyndon Johnson did he would have engaged
in a merciless b-52 carpet bombings of
Laius Cambodia and Vietnam as Richard
Nixon did he would have risked
destroying his own electoral base
proving himself a mass murderer as bad
as Nixon Chomsky and Coburn don't tell
us how they know that all we know is the
one surviving Kennedy the Robert Kennedy
in fact went a different way
he became an anti
critic he opposed the war he broke with
the Johnson administration and he said
that his brother's administration his
administration had committed terrible
mistakes the evidence we do have in fact
is that John Kennedy observed Cambodian
neutrality and negotiated a ceasefire
and coalition government in Laos which
the CIA refused to honor they preferred
to back a right-wing faction that
continued the war Chomsky says much
about troop withdrawal just wrote a
whole book on this Camelot revisited and
all that but he says very little about
troop escalation other than to offer
Roger Hillsman speculation that Ken Lee
might well have introduced US troops
ground troops in South Vietnam maybe so
maybe not in fact the same Hillsman
noted in the New York Times not long ago
and Chomsky doesn't note it that in 1963
Kennedy was the only person in his
administration who opposed the
introduction of u.s. ground troops he
was the only thing preventing an
escalation of the war forget the
question of withdrawal not withdrawal he
was a barrier in that sense whether or
not there are certain left analysts who
think Kennedy was or wasn't a
progressive or liberal and think that
the CIA had no reason to kill him or
other people had no reason to be
dissatisfied him the fact is do they see
it that way you know entrenched
interests are notorious for not seeing
the world the same way that left
analysts do in 1963 people in right-wing
circles including elements in various
intelligence organizations did not
believe that Kennedy could be trusted
with the nation's future
now some months ago on a San Francisco
talk-show I heard a guy come on I was on
kgo and he said I never said this before
I never said it it's the first time I'm
saying it but I worked for Army
Intelligence and in 1963 I was in Japan
and when he and the excepted word around
then was that Kennedy would be killed
because he was messing too much with the
intelligence community and when word
came of his death we we were all I could
hear with delighted comments like we got
the bastard
what JFK's enemy saw something who was
what they saw was something different
from what Chomsky and Coburn have seen
they fixed on Kennedy's refusal to
provide air coverage the Bay of Pigs his
refusal to go in with US forces his
unwillingness to launch another invasion
of Cuba is no invasion guaranteed to
Khrushchev on Cuba his atmospheric test
ban treaty with Moscow his American
University speech calling for a
reexamination of our Cold War attitudes
toward the Soviet Union his
unwillingness to send ground forces in a
massive form into Vietnam his antitrust
suit against General Electric his fight
with US Steel of a price increases his
challenge to the Federal Reserve Board
his warm reception at labor conventions
his call for racial equality and
responsiveness to civil rights leaders
reluctant responsiveness his talk of
moving forward in a new frontier or
window of the progressive says that he
admits he has no idea who killed Kennedy
but this doesn't keep him from asserting
that the Oliver Stone film was
manipulative and that stone provided
false answers how do you know that Irwin
if you have no idea who killed Kennedy
and the remarkable thing about Irwin
knoll and Noam Chomsky and Alexander
Coburn is they don't know a damn thing
about the criticisms and investigation
that's been made we've said this again
and again and the rebuttals in the
exchange in the nation every almost
everyone and said Alexander Coburn
doesn't know anything about this case he
doesn't know anything about Lee Harvey
Oswald really there's no or just some of
the questions I brought up they don't
know it and they never deny it they
never say anything they go on with their
what they're patronizing comments well
Chomsky patronization condescension
Coburn would vitriol and venom they go
on attacking those who supposedly are
idealizing Kennedy her window shows he's
flexible though he says he allows that
the Warren Commission did a hasty
slipshod job of investigation I disagree
the Commission did a brilliant job of
investigation it's sat for 51 long
sessions over a period of several months
much longer than most major
investigations it compiled 26 volumes of
testimony and evidence
it had the investigative resources of
the FBI and CIA at his command far from
being hasty and slipshod it pain
taking Li crafted theories that moved
toward its foreordained conclusion that
Oswald was the assassin it framed an
argument and moved unfailingly to
fulfill that argument it failed to call
witnesses who saw something different
from what it wanted to hear who saw who
not only heard but who saw people on the
grassy knoll shooting it failed to call
them it ignored or reinterpreted what
little conflicting testimony that did
creep into its proceedings all this took
deliberate effort it was carefully
crafted painstakingly a hasty slipshod
investigation would show traces of
randomness in his errors some would go
this way some would go that way but the
Commission's distortions consistently
moved in the same direction in pursuit
of a prefigured hypothesis the gullible
US public that early Knoll talks about
no will condemns all of the stones were
playing on the gullibility of the
American people see he's not gullible
he's cool he doesn't fall for this he's
so cool didn't go see the movie you see
the US public has not bought the
official explanation 78% say they
believe there was a conspiracy in both
Chomsky and Coburn Coburn in the nation
Chomsky and Z Magazine and again in the
letter in exchange with me both of them
dismissed that fact and point out the
same identical analog they point out
that in fact over seventy percent of
people also believe in miracles so what
does that prove and what does that got
to do with the question at hand that
people can have a stupid opinion about
one thing doesn't mean they're stupid
about everything it's like Chomsky and
Coburn are themselves evidence of that
in any case the comparison is between
two different things they're comparing
the public go ability about miracles
with the public unwillingness to be
gullible about the official line of the
being said and shoved in their faces for
30 years that takes that's not
gullibility at all
[Applause]
Alexander Coburn and Noam Chomsky have
told us that we must not reduce great
developments in history to conspiracy
for then we lose sight of institution
class and other systemic faculties of
American capitalism I don't need them to
tell me about systemic factors in
American capitalism I use the structural
analysis and all my writings but
investigating the JFK conspiracy we are
not looking for an escape from something
unpleasant and difficult that
psychiatrist Noam Chomsky speaking but
we're hitting upon the nature of state
power and what is supposedly to be a
democracy conspiracy is not something
that's encountered distinction to
structural analysis it is part of it
these guys will use conspiracy they will
use legitimacy they will finance
elections they will use publicity
campaigns they will set up liberal
--is-- organizations they will set up
alternative trade union movements that
will use assassins and death squads that
will use every single conceivable thing
there is and this was one of the things
they use when they had someone who was
giving them trouble when they had
someone who was standing in their path
because he was a little too bright and
too shiny when they had an agenda to
save Southeast Asia from communism they
would kill one of their own and that is
a tremendous revel is a revelation it
was a startling revelation to the
American public to make them realize
what kind of a gangster government and
national security state we really have
in this country and what it does around
the world
a structuralist position should not
discount the role of human agency in
history institutions were not self
generating forces the great continuities
of corporate and class interests
that's Coburn's phrase do not happen of
their own accord like reified
disembodied social forces neither
empires
nor national security institutions come
into existence in the fit of
absent-mindedness although the British
elites used to say that the British
Empire was accumulated in a fit of
absent-mindedness give me a break
give me a break as these guys plotted
and killed and brought armies in and
destroyed and bribed and murdered and
lied and did all the things in ruin and
plundered these countries and plundered
and plundered them absent-minded god
knows when you focus your attention what
you would do there's a conscious
interest being pursued here and the
evidence for it is the state itself
these things these events are created by
willfully intended policymakers who
pursue specific interests it is the
essence of the state and the function of
state institutions to act as conscious
agents in recreating the conditions of
political economic hegemony that's what
it's there for that's what they're paid
to do to achieve their goals
state leaders especially those within
the national security state will resort
to every necessary form of mass
manipulation deception and violence even
against one of their own whom they have
come to see as a liability
conspiratorial action is not brothers
and sisters it's not something separate
and exclusive of institutional presence
in fact there's a constant interplay
between the two and by that it's all
this call for two structural analysis
institutional analysis where's the
institutional analysis in the nation all
you get all you get are all conspiracies
inside intrigues events happenings
articles of preoccupy wouldn't media
policies issues events personalities
secret deals all that kind of stuff
all of them are vastly lesser magnitude
than JFK assassination yet and yet in 30
years the nation and the progressive
have never published a singing
word by investigators like Peter Dale
Scott and such except a letter to the
editor once in a while now let me quote
from Peters Peters uh book deep politics
he raises this question of conspiracy
and he points out that G William Dom
Hoff makes a point very much like
Coburn's he says and Peter I think makes
a point very much like the one I made in
which I was quoting from which was in my
exchange with Chomsky and Z Magazine
about and also with what with them I
mean with Chomsky and also in the nation
in my exchange with Coburn I made this
point that conspiracy and institution
are not mutually exclusive and they
never have answered or addressed that
point either to rebut it or to accept it
or to see how it doesn't apply here or
does apply whatever they just ignore it
Dom Hoff points out if conspiracy means
that these men meaning the ruling elites
are aware of their interests know each
other personally meet together privately
and off the record and try to hammer out
a consensus on how to anticipate and
react to events and issues then there is
some conspiring that goes on in the
Council for Foreign Relations not to
mention the committee for Economic
Development the Business Council the
National Security Council and the
Central Intelligence Agency
but then Dom Hoff Scott goes on to show
that Dom Hoff shares that same kind of
resistance that Coburn in Chomsky have
to the idea that an assassination
conspiracy could have a lasting impact
on our political Arrangements we all
have a tremendous tendency to want to
get caught up and believing there's some
secret evil cause for all of the obvious
ills of the world conspiracy theories
encourage they belief that if we get rid
of a few bad people everything will be
well in the world he's quoting Dom Hoff
then Peter answers
I believe that a true understanding of
the Kennedy assassination will lead not
to a few bad people but to the
institutional and power political
arrangements which constitute the way we
are systematically governed the
conspiracies I see as operative in other
words are part of our political
structure not exceptions to it
that's Peter Dale Scott
what the left critics do is that they
mistaken the low political value of the
victim JFK whom they hate and detest
that they're big fears that you're gonna
like him with the high political
importance of the issue and the
implications for democracy the
revelation of the gangster nature of the
state I mean captain Alfred Dreyfus back
in 1894 was a conservative militarists
Clemenceau once conjectured that if his
name had not been Dreyfus he would have
been an anti Dreyfus odd does that mean
that the political struggle waged in La
Fea Dreyfus was a waste of time the
issue was quickly drawn between the
right and the left between those who
stood with the army and those who stood
with the Republic itself and with
justice the same with Benigno Aquino
Aquino was a member of the privileged
class in the Philippines he promised no
great structural changes
he was even more conservative than
Kennedy does this mean that the Filipino
people should have dismissed the
conspiracy that led to his assassination
as an event of no experience so just
another ruling class Pig what do we care
instead they used it as ammunition
against the hated Marcos regime as a
revelation of what that government was
really doing Archbishop Romero of El
Salvador he was a member of the
Salvadoran aristocracy he could not have
made it to the top of the church
hierarchy otherwise when he was ordained
they came with presents they hugged and
kissed him
and the minute he opened up his mouth
and made some critical remarks and about
the Warrens some favorable remarks about
the poor he was assassinated I doubt if
he hadn't been assassinated the
Salvadoran history would have been much
different does this mean that solidarity
groups in this country in El Salvador
should not have tried to make his murder
an issue that revealed the homicidal
gangsta nature of the Salvadoran state
instead of seizing the opportunity some
left writers condescendingly ascribe a
host of mass psychology motivations and
emotional needs to those of us who are
concerned about the JFK assassination
they sakala psychologize about our
illusions of false dreams our longings
from messiahs and father figures our
inability to face unpleasant realities
the way they can
they deliver patronizing admissions
about our conspiracy captivation
and Camelot yearnings they urge us not
to escape into fantasy they are the
cognoscenti who guide us and out left us
on the JFK assassination a subject about
which they don't know a goddamn thing
and whose significance they will never
be able and have not been able to grasp
I have a different name for our
interests it is not JFK worship it's not
Camelot yearnings as the left critics
would say it's not big evils and
conspiracy titillation as the mainstream
media would say our interest is born of
democratic struggle a desire to know
what is going on a desire to have rulers
who are worthy of our name and the name
of democracy thank you
that was michael haven t on the JFK
assassination and the gangster nature of
the state with roots in a working-class
Italian district of New York and a PhD
in political science from Yale
Michael Pavan he has become an
internationally known lecturer an
extended text of this talk can be found
in prevent his book dirty truth
published by city lights visit tu si
radios website at tu si radio dot org
for links to Michael prevent his website
you can hear this program again on tu si
radios website T you see radio org look
under newest programs t you see videos
free to all radio stations and depends
on the support of listeners like you
your donation or CD order keeps this
program on the air call anytime at 7:07
four six three two six five four for
information on how to order you can get
your CD by mail or online on t you see
radio secure website t you see radio dot
org this was a tribute to Michael
Parvati and his 1993 talk on the JFK
assassination since then more books have
been published with important additional
information one is the last
investigation
what insiders know about the
assassination of JFK that's by the
Congressional researcher Gaytan Fonzi
the other by James Douglas is JFK and
the unspeakable why he died and why it
matters links are on T you see radio dot
org my name is Mariah gallery
thank you for listening give us a call